The first step, display courses using ng4.
So we'll hop into the template and
I'm gonna go to the course list
container here at the div class.
And then within this card,
I'm going to do a mat-list.
So let's see if I can get
this to generate since I was
a little bit hit or miss,
but I at least want to try.
No, no luck.
So with that said,
I will just do this by hand mat-list.
And then within here,
we're gonna do a mat-list-item.
Let me try this again.
Well, so mat-list-item.
And within the mat-list-item,
we're going to loop over the courses.
So we'll go ng4.
And from here it's let course of courses.
And this is just going to iterate.
So this is in its simplest form,
a functional for loop.
And then within this let's just go course
Title, there we go.
All right, let's hop into our browser.
And let me just change the route here, so
we replace home with components or
courses, rather, sorry.
There we go, and
you can see that it is rendering.
Now, I saw somebody in chat say,
let me try this one more time.
That they tried.
All I was looking for.
All right, no worries.
Okay, so this is okay, but
I feel like it could be a little better.
So I'm going to just extend
a little bit on this.
And this is just merely from
perusing through the documentation.
But let's go h3 and
I'm going to attach matline.
And so what this does is it
just forces it into a line.
So again, this is just from
reading the documentation, and
just kind of understanding
what options are available.
But then underneath of that,
let's do a p tag.
I'm also gonna make this matline and
we'll do course.description.
And I just caught a typo, all right?
There we go.
And let's save this and
see if this renders properly.
I forgot something.
In my haste, I forgot to close that.
Let's go back here.
There we go, perfect.
All right, so now what we need to do is
we need the ability to select a course.
So I believe this is the second piece.
So the first thing I'm gonna
do here is I'm going to create
a selectedCourse property, and
I'm going to set it to null.
Then from there just underneath to this,
so properties go on top
methods go on the bottom.
I'm gonna go selectCourse.
We'll pass in a course parameter and
then we'll go this
selectedCourse = course.
Okay?
Then from here,
let's hop back into our template.
And we will bind to the click event.
So put that in parentheses,
selectCourse and we'll pass in course.
And I believe this is working.
This is kind of, I have high
confidence but I'll just go ahead and
we'll just log this out incrementally,
courseSelected,
course, there we go.
Let's hop into here.
I'm gonna open up the console,
there we go.
So you can see course selected,
very good, okay?
So the next step to complete our challenge
is we need to render the selected
course inside of the second column.
So pretty straightforward.
We're just going to do our
pre tag selectedCourse.
We'll bind this here and
let's just see real quick,
cuz we haven't really talked about this
is if you don't do JSON, what happens?
So we'll go back here.
And notice it's just
saying it's an object.
And so it's just kind of like
a console log without actually
doing anything with it.
But when you add in the JSON pipe under
the hood, what it does is it pipes that
output into this pipe and
it converts it into JSON.
So back into the code or
back into the app.
We click on this and you can now see that
we have the ability to select a course.
Now, just for the sake of continuity,
I'm going to add in
just a few more pieces to keep
this application in kind of a coherent
narrative arc as I would develop it.
So this is what we're trying
to balance here is kind
of these concepts in a sequential order,
as well as trying to capture kind of
some organic developments like
this is how I would code.
So within our matlist item,
I want to give the ability to not only
select a course, but also to delete it.
So I'm going to create a button and
I'm going to add mat-icon-button.
And so this is another
angular material component or
directive that we put on and so
I'm gonna give this a color of orne.
At first I thought that was warm.
I realized not so much, and then within
the button, I'm going to put a map icon.
And I'm just going to put delete.
All right, let's just save this to make
sure I haven't went off the rails.
No, there we go.
So you can click but
notice when I click the button,
that because we're dealing with native
DOM events, it's actually bubbling up.
And so we'll address that in just
a moment, so back into the code.
I'm going to add another click handler and
I'm going to say deleteCourse.
Now in this case, the only information
I need to delete the course is the ID.
And you notice because I have the angular
language service running that
it's not defined.
So this is really handy.
So I can hop back in here.
And I can fill this out
real quick courseId.
And, courseDeleted,
we'll just log this out as well.
There we go.
And back into our application,
I'll pull up the console.
And this is going to be somewhat
interesting, is I clicked this.
Notice a couple things happened.
The first one being that
I clicked the delete
button which had fired the event handler,
but
that event bubbled up and
inadvertently I selected a course.
So, how do we handle this?
So back into the code, we'll go here and
what we need to do is essentially,
just to stop the event propagation.
So what we'll do here is and I'm gonna
break this to a second line just so
we can see this in its entirety.
In a click handler or in an event handler,
you can put in more than one function,
which is what we're gonna do here.
So, with every event handler,
there is an event property a dollar
event that we have access to.
And so
now I can go stopImmediatePropagation,
and this should do the trick.
So I'll save this, and
let's go back into our application.
Notice it fired down here, but
I did not select the course.
So let's just do one more thing
real quick to just tie this up,
make it nice and neat.
And that is, Here, what we'll do,
Is we'll do ngIf and
we'll just do selectedCourse.
So pretty simple, we're just gonna say
if it's not null, then we'll show it, or
if it's not null, we'll show it, if it is,
don't show anything in this case.
So we'll go back here into our app,
nothing here, I select it.
There we go.